False Belief in the Theory of Mind: Some Examples

1. There are only two ways of describing and explaining things: as mindless or as having propositional attitudes (Davidson); i.e. as using behavioural strategies or as representing propositional attitudes as such

2. False belief tasks are an acid test for representation of propositional attitudes (tasks involving identity, quantification, senses and normativity are not acid tests)

3. Adult humans' everyday thinking about mental states (or a philosopher's systematization of it) provides a model for understanding infant, chimpanzee or scrub-jab mindreading.  [*Holism, knowledge<>sources]

4. The conceptual structure of adult theory of mind cognition is well understood by researchers (or has been discovered by philosophical introspection).

5. Representing knowledge is less cognitively or conceptually demanding than representing belief (because it doesn't involve having to coordinate representations of inconsistent propositions) [*think about multiple-object tracking as coordinating representations of incompatible locations!]

6. Goals are intentions (and so are desires)

7. Either all adult theory of mind cognition is automatic or none of it is automatic.

8. Which feature (or features) of the propositional attitudes makes representing them cognitively and conceptually demanding is known by researchers.  

9.  We already have (or don't need) a good theory of behaviour reading, and of how theory of mind cognition extends behaviour reading

10. Full-blown theory of mind cognition could be modular (or could be core cognition) [*no: interface problem]

11. Understanding false belief matters only (or primarily) insofar as it enables one to better predict what others will do [*objectivity]

12. The false belief tasks which one- and two-year-old infants pass differ from those  which they fail in this way: the former are non-verbal, the latter verbal.

13. When mindreading, being a mere observer is just as good as being a potential interaction partner. [*specify]