


What is involved in question asking being driven by a full understanding of knowledge?  1. I can identify a gap in my knowledge. 2.  I recognise that different people know different things—someone may know something I don't and I may know something they don't (as opposed to the artful use of heuristics in deciding when to accept someone's testimony).  3.  I understand that knowledge can be shared (rather than thinking of others' knowledge as a internal quantity no more transferable than a pain).  4.  I think of asking questions as a way of tapping into other people's knowledge. 

What is the bare minimum understanding that could motivate question asking? 

1. Sometimes asking questions might be driven by a bare feeling of uncertainty [stage 0 in the pragmatist view of inquiry] but to the extent that children ask questions relevant to achieving their aims they must have uncertainty concerning some particular obstacle to completing a task, for example uncertainty over where to put the marker [stage 1, recognising an obstacle to my action rather than recognisng that there is something I don't know].  

2. I have some heuristics that determine whether I accept what people say (perhaps initially as simple as 'believe whatever people tell you when you ask them a question', but  more complex to the extent that children can recognise obviously false answers)

3. No need for any understanding of knowledge at all.

4.  Uncertainty disposes me to ask questions much as curiosity disposes me to reach out and touch an object; in neither case do I need to understand that asking questions is a way of resolving my uncertainty.  Further, I may know that in certain circumstances asking a question will alleviate my uncertainty without understanding why asking questions does so (it does so because by asking a question I can tap into someone else's knowledge).

Basic contrast: Haigh et al.: children find it really hard to say how they know when they know because someone told them.  This suggests that children don't understand questions as a way of getting knowledge.

But: they do believe knowledgeable over obviously ignorant people.

[What is understanding knowledge?  (1) as manifested by believing knowledgable but not obviously ignorant speakers – the idea that people have the state or lack it; (2) as manifested by being able to ask questions of knowledgeable but not ignorant speakers – the idea that knowledge is a capacity that enables people to do things like answer questions and the idea that knowldege is not locked into one person's head but can be shared.]  

Actually solving the experiments mentioned in (1) may not even involve recognising knowledge at all – it may rather involve simple heuristics like 'don't believe people who are blindfolded' or 'don't believe people who have been systematically wrong in the past'.  